# What is a novel?

Graphs, Maps, Trees by Franco Moretti calls for a new approach of understanding literary history through the diversion of looking at texts with a different perspective, a perspective that argues to change in which the way reading is done. The main feature of Moretti’s argument is based upon the quantitative data he has provided, which includes the publication of novels at various timepoints in different countries. Moretti takes an interesting stance as to how he utilizes this quantitative data, Moretti explaining that this data is not interpretative, that the important turning points of the publication of novels must be decided on a different basis not related to the statistics. A basis that looks at how social and political factors have an impact on the rise and fall of the publication of novels. Using examples of censorship and war throughout the history of these countries, Moretti uses his graphs to pinpoint the various peaks and valleys as to when novels are being published. 

The development of genres is also another piece of supporting evidence that Moretti utilizes as quantitative data. He describes genres as the gap where flow and form meet, meaning that genres themselves help to dictate the landscape of literary history. As he does with the publication of novels, Moretti also looks at the temporality of genres, analyzing how genres disappear in groups, but also how genres sprout from one another. The forms change over time which directly leads to the genres becoming either displaced, replaced, or evolving into something different. The representation of how Moretti displays this quantitative data, the ebb and flow of the publication of novels and the invention of new genres, is the crux of Moretti’s argument. The crux being the way in which the interpretation of reading can be handled.

The main focal point that Moretti is trying to suggest the usage of these models, graphs, maps and trees will allow for new forms of analysis in the literary field. Although I see an issue in how he uses the publication of literary history specific to novels. Simply counting the amount of publications to juxtapose the idea of the rise and fall of novels is a narrow-minded way of analyzation. Moretti explains as to how social, political and even economic factors have an impact to the number of publications in varying countries, but are the publication of novels the only contributing factor as to what is a novel? Drucker creates a similar point in Humanities Approaches to Graphical Display, 

  “A standard critique of data introduces reservations about the appearance of certainty such a chart presents. What counts as a nation?    Are transient and immigrant populations documented? What kind of time span counts as “at the present time” within which these        
   populations are counted?” 

The point Drucker is making is that data in itself is already an interpreted expression, meaning that certain things can be drawn off a chart, and that a chart is not limited to the numbers it is representing. Moretti explicitly alludes to the notion that the only importance of novels are the ones that are published, yet he does not account for novels that may have gone unrecorded in literary history. This suggests that the data is now unrepresentative of the whole, how can you dictate the rise and fall of novels in a nation’s history when there can be as many novels that have gone undocumented? As much as the rise and fall of the publication of novels fluctuates, by focusing on only the novels that have been published it is a distorted conception of reality. 

Moretti’s claim is that quantitative data is the whole truth, but disclaiming sets of data in a way is an interpretation of data. An interpretation of data that is suggesting an acknowledgement of the data that is not being represented. Quantitative data can be qualitative when there is an attempt to understand what the quantitative data is representing as suggested by Underwood in Distant Reading and Recent Intellectual History. 

  “That conceptual advance would be interesting in itself. But it also allows researchers to include qualitative evidence like text in a    quantitative model by the simple expedient of using lots of variables (say, one for each word). Social scientists can now connect       structured social evidence to loosely structured texts or images or sounds, and they’re discovering that this connection opens up       fascinating questions.”

Underwood explains as to how the representation of unstructured texts led to a difficult divide from the quantitative social sciences and the humanities. This in part is similar to what Drucker was explaining, that data can be interpreted past the digits, that it is representative through the meanings of what the data is acknowledging.


<iframe style='width: 692px; height: 495px;' src='//voyant-tools.org/tool/Trends/?query=novel&query=time&query=information&query=interpretation&withDistributions=raw&bins=2&docIndex=1&corpus=757fcd9ad9da7564ad2615c54009d99c'></iframe>
